DOCSP-41144: Atlas Search Indexes (#16)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/indexes/atlas-search-index.txt

.. _kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index:

====================
Atlas Search Indexes
====================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: index, query, optimization, efficiency

Overview
--------

> The Atlas Search feature enables you to perform full-text searches on

Reviewer: S: Link to Atlas Search docs
```suggestion
:atlas:`Atlas Search <atlas-search> enables you to perform full-text searches on
```

> collections hosted on MongoDB Atlas. The indexes specify the behavior of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collections hosted on MongoDB Atlas. Atlas Search indexes specify the behavior of
```

the search and which fields to index.

You can call the following methods on a collection to manage your Atlas Search
indexes:

- ``createSearchIndex()``
- ``createSearchIndexes()``
- ``listSearchIndexes()``
- ``updateSearchIndex()``
- ``dropSearchIndex()``

.. note::

>    The Atlas Search Index management methods run asynchronously. The

Reviewer: I don't think "index" should be capitalized since it's not part of the product name
```suggestion
   The Atlas Search index management methods run asynchronously. The
```

>    The Atlas Search Index management methods run asynchronously. The
>    driver methods can return before confirming that they ran
>    successfully. To determine the current status of the indexes, call the

Reviewer: S: I think this can be simplified (if I'm understanding correctly)

```suggestion
   The Atlas Search Index management methods run asynchronously, and might return before confirming that they ran successfully. To determine the current status of the indexes, call the
```

   ``listSearchIndexes()`` method.

The following sections provide code examples that demonstrate how to use
each of the preceding methods.

.. _kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-create:

Create a Search Index
---------------------

You can use the `createSearchIndex() <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-kotlin-sync/com.mongodb.kotlin.client/-mongo-collection/create-search-index.html>`__
and the `createSearchIndexes() <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-kotlin-sync/com.mongodb.kotlin.client/-mongo-collection/create-search-indexes.html>`__

> methods to create Atlas Search indexes.

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
methods to create one or more Atlas Search indexes.
```

The following code example shows how to create a single index:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/indexes/indexes.kt
   :language: kotlin
   :start-after: start-create-search-index
   :end-before: end-create-search-index
   :dedent:

The following code example shows how to create multiple indexes:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/indexes/indexes.kt
   :language: kotlin
   :start-after: start-create-search-indexes
   :end-before: end-create-search-indexes
   :dedent:

.. _kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-list:

List Search Indexes
-------------------

You can use the
`listSearchIndexes() <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-kotlin-sync/com.mongodb.kotlin.client/-mongo-collection/list-search-indexes.html>`__

> method to return the Atlas Search indexes of a collection.

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
method to return all Atlas Search indexes in a collection.
```
